# code

This directory contains the essential scripts used to generate all figures for our research paper on lake microbiomes data. The primary scripts are `lake-microbiome-figures.py` for processing lake microbiome data and `Car-figures.R` for genertating CARlasso model related figures. Upon execution, these scripts generate a new directory named `OutputFigures`, where all the resulting figures are stored.

## Scripts Overview

- `lake-microbiome-figures.py`: Analyzes comparative and Correlative lake microbiome data of Microbial Abundance in Varied Environmental Conditions and generates corresponding figures.
- `Car-figures.R`:Using CARlasso model to identify Connections Between MAGs and Environmental Parameters and produces the necessary visualizations.

## Prerequisites

Before running the scripts, ensure you have the following installed:

- **Python** (recommended version 3.8 or higher)
- **R** (recommended version 4.0 or higher)

### Run the 2 python code for this project
In terminal Run the py files by
```{sh}
python lake-microbiome-figures.py
Rscript Car-figures.R
```


Metagenomic_Network.Rmd---This study explores connections between Bacteria and Archaea metagenome-assembled genomes (MAG) in lake and environmental parameters, analyzing raw count data from 16 bulk metagenomic samples. It build the CarLasso model based on 7 differeent feature selection methods, 4 permutation tests, and 3 percentage analysis.

Metatransciptomic_Network.Rmd---This study explores connections between Bacteria and Archaea metagenome-assembled genomes (MAG) in lake and environmental parameters, analyzing Metatransciptomic data from 16 bulk metagenomic samples. It build the CarLasso model based on 7 differeent feature selection methods, 4 permutation tests, and 3 percentage analysis.

## Run the code
For running these code, create the `OutputFigures` directory that contain all the figures generated by the scripts. Navigate to this directory to view the visual representations used in the paper. 


